# Campaign Finance

The goal of this project is to perform a wholesome analysis of campaign contributions to the major candidates in the 2020 Presidential Election. Once data analysis is completed, the project will transition to GIS software to display the results. Details are below.

Campaign contributions are not always straightforward. Depending on the origin, intent, amount, and intermediary stops, not all contributions have to be reported with details about the contributor or amount. For example, all individual contributions have to be logged by the receiving committee, but only those individual contributions greater than $200.00 have to be reported to the FEC in detail. Reporting contributions in detail to the FEC requires that the receiving committee record the name, address, occupation, and employer, among other things, of the contributor. These qualifying individual contributions must be itemized and reported with the required information about the contributor.

Individual donations that do not meet this detailed reporting criteria (i.e. contributions < $200.00) can be bundled together as unitemized contributions, which are reported as a single lump sum with no data beyond the amount. The contribution receiving committee has the same detailed information about the contributors, but is not required to report them. While this can make it difficult to accurately quantify a donation profile for each candidate, it is certainly best practice for campaigns to itemize and give detailed reports for all contributions, regardless of whether it is required. Most relevant campaigns are moving in this direction of reporting all individual contributions.

This project aims to take a wholesome look at campaign contributions across the country as distributed by zip code. Zip code is a finer observation scale than state or congressional level, which is the intent. The idea, at least initially, is to break down contributions by each campaign independently, so as to give a complete picture of where each candidate is financially supported across the country. This information, coupled with the number of contributions in each area, can give insight into who and where supports each candidate financially.

While lump sum totals of unitemized individual contributions exist, it will be impossible to fully depict all individual contributions received by a candidate. However, as discussed, campaigns and committees are trending towards full reporting, which brings reported contributions and totals closer to the real contributions and totals. In addition to analyzing contributions to each campaign, this project also analyzes reported contributions to related PACs or other committees that have contributed or transferred sizable amounts of money to a candidate. This is tricky because, typically, not all contributions received by a PAC or JFC go to a single candidate's campaign. Further